This is the voting system. User can vote for candidate listed in the system.

## How this system works
User will be provided an un-changeable list of candidate, and they can vote for the candidate they interested in.

Each user can only vote for 1 candidate, and they can not change their decision.
The list candidate is fixed, it can not be changed.

## Building the environment

To run the system, clone the repository as follows:

```shell
git clone git@github.com:Sotatek-ManhNguyen3/cartesi_voting_system.git
```

Then, build the back-end for the voting example:

```shell
make machine
```

## Running the environment

In order to start the containers in production mode, simply run:

```shell
docker-compose up --build
```

_Note:_ If you decide to use [Docker Compose V2](https://docs.docker.com/compose/cli-command/), make sure you set the [compatibility flag](https://docs.docker.com/compose/cli-command-compatibility/) when executing the command (e.g., `docker compose --compatibility up`).

Allow some time for the infrastructure to be ready.
How much will depend on your system, but after some time showing the error `"concurrent call in session"`, eventually the container logs will repeatedly show the following:

```shell
server_manager_1      | Received GetVersion
server_manager_1      | Received GetStatus
server_manager_1      |   default_rollups_id
server_manager_1      | Received GetSessionStatus for session default_rollups_id
server_manager_1      |   0
server_manager_1      | Received GetEpochStatus for session default_rollups_id epoch 0
```

To stop the containers, first end the process with `Ctrl + C`.
Then, remove the containers and associated volumes by executing:

```shell
docker-compose down -v
```

## Interacting with the application

With the infrastructure in place, you can interact with the application using a set of Hardhat tasks.

First, go to a separate terminal window, switch to the `contracts` directory, and run `yarn`:

```shell
cd contracts/
yarn
```

Then, send an input as follows:

```shell
npx hardhat --network localhost voting:addInput --input "0x7B22616374696F6E223A20224C4953545F414C4C227D"
```
This input requests the system to return the list of candidate `{"action":"LIST_ALL"}`

You can replace this request by another to retrieve the expected result. Here are the docs for each query:

If you want to get all the candidates, you use this query:

`{"action":"LIST_ALL"}`

If you want to vote for a candidate, you use this query (The candidate_id can be found when you list all the existing candidates):

`{"action":"VOTE","candidate_id":"C10"}`

If you want to view what candidate you had voted, you use this query:

`{"action":"VOTED_CANDIDATE"}`

If you want to view the highest ranking candidates, you can use this query (with quantity is the number of candidates you want to see):

`{"action":"TOP_CANDIDATES","quantity":10}`

The input will have been accepted when you receive a response similar to the following one:

```shell
Added input '0x7B22616374696F6E223A20224C4953545F414C4C227D' to epoch '0' (index '0', timestamp: 1646377281, signer: 0xf39Fd6e51aad88F6F4ce6aB8827279cffFb92266, tx: 0xfac214be3290c7d3e856e915707a4c97538911b676eaa76e79c84133c2875d9e)
```

In order to verify the notices generated by your inputs, run the command:

```shell
npx hardhat --network localhost voting:getNotices --epoch 0 
```

The response should be something like this:

```shell
{"session_id":"default_rollups_id","epoch_index":"0","input_index":"0","notice_index":"0","payload":"63617274657369"}
```

You can also send inputs as regular strings. For example:

```shell
$ npx hardhat --network localhost voting:addInput --input 'Hello there!'
```

To retrieve notices interpreting the payload as a UTF-8 string, you can use the `--payload string` option:

```shell
$ npx hardhat --network localhost voting:getNotices --epoch 0 --payload string
{"session_id":"default_rollups_id","epoch_index":"0","input_index":"1","notice_index":"0","payload":"cartesi"}
```

Finally, note that you can check the available options for all Hardhat tasks using the `--help` switch:

```shell
$ npx hardhat --help
```


## Running the environment in host mode

When developing an application, it is often important to easily test and debug it. For that matter, it is possible to run the Cartesi Rollups environment in [host mode](../README.md#host-mode), so that the DApp's back-end can be executed directly on the host machine, allowing it to be debugged using regular development tools such as an IDE.

The first step is to run the environment in host mode using the following command:

```shell
$ docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose-host.yml up --build
```

The next step is to run the voting server in your machine. The application is written in Python, so you need to have `python3` installed.

In order to start the voting server, run the following commands in a dedicated terminal:

```shell
$ cd server/
$ python3 -m venv .env
$ . .env/bin/activate
$ pip install -r requirements.txt
$ ROLLUP_HTTP_SERVER_URL="http://127.0.0.1:5004" python3 voting.py
```

This will run the voting server and send the corresponding notices to port `5004`.

The final command, which effectively starts the server, can also be configured in an IDE to allow interactive debugging using features like breakpoints.
You can also use a tool like [entr](https://eradman.com/entrproject/) to restart it automatically when the code changes. For example:

```shell
$ ls *.py | ROLLUP_HTTP_SERVER_URL="http://127.0.0.1:5004" entr -r python3 voting.py
```

After the server successfully starts, it should print an output like the following:

```
INFO:__main__:HTTP rollup_server url is http://127.0.0.1:5004
INFO:__main__:Sending finish
```

After that, you can interact with the application normally [as explained above](#interacting-with-the-application).

When you add an input, you should see it being processed by the voting server as follows:

```shell
INFO:__main__:Received finish status 200
INFO:__main__:Received advance request data {'metadata': {'msg_sender': '0xf39fd6e51aad88f6f4ce6ab8827279cfffb92266', 'epoch_index': 0, 'input_index': 0, 'block_number': 0, 'timestamp': 0}, 'payload': '0x63617274657369'}
INFO:__main__:Adding notice
INFO:__main__:Received notice status 200 body b'{"index":0}'
INFO:__main__:Sending finish
```

Finally, to stop the containers, removing any associated volumes, execute:

```shell
$ docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose-host.yml down -v
```
