## Voting DApp
This is the voting system. User can vote for candidate listed in the system.
This system provides everyone the ability to create their own voting campaign. (Only people deposited to the system can vote)
They can create the campaign with a list of candidates within it.
They can:
- Modify the list of candidates
- Set start time and end time for the campaign.

Anyone can join the campaign to vote, they can only vote for 1 candidate per campaign. Once they have voted, they can not change their selection.

## Installing extra dependencies

The DApp requires some modules, which are not available in the default Python installation that comes with the Cartesi Machine.
In order to install these modules, this DApp's build configuration has been adapted following the same process already explained in the [Calculator documentation](../calculator/README.md#installing-extra-dependencies).

In practice, the [build procedure](../README.md#building) remains the same one described for all the DApps.

## Interacting with the application

We can use the [frontend-console](../frontend-console) application to interact with the DApp.
Ensure that the [application has already been built](../frontend-console/README.md#building) before using it.

First, go to a separate terminal window and switch to the `frontend-console` directory:

```shell
cd frontend-console
```

Then, send an input as follows (If you want to deposit to the system):

```shell
yarn start erc20 deposit --amount 100
```

Or send an input as a request to interact with voting system
You can replace this request by another to retrieve the expected result. The list available api is in [list available api](#available-api).

```shell
yarn start send --input '{"action":"LIST_ALL"}'
```

In order to verify the notices generated by your inputs, run the command:

```shell
yarn start notices
```

The response should be something like this:

```shell
[
  {
    epoch: '0',
    input: '1',
    notice: '0',
    payload: 'Deposit received from: 0xf39fd6e51aad88f6f4ce6ab8827279cfffb92266; ERC-20: 0xa513e6e4b8f2a923d98304ec87f64353c4d5c853; Amount: 100'
  }
]
```


## Running the environment in host mode

When developing an application, it is often important to easily test and debug it. For that matter, it is possible to run the Cartesi Rollups environment in [host mode](../README.md#host-mode), so that the DApp's back-end can be executed directly on the host machine, allowing it to be debugged using regular development tools such as an IDE.

The first step is to run the environment in host mode using the following command:

```shell
$ docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose-host.yml up --build
```

The next step is to run the voting server in your machine. The application is written in Python, so you need to have `python3` installed.

In order to start the voting server, run the following commands in a dedicated terminal:

```shell
$ cd server/
$ python3 -m venv .env
$ . .env/bin/activate
$ pip install -r requirements.txt
$ ROLLUP_HTTP_SERVER_URL="http://127.0.0.1:5004" python3 voting.py
```

This will run the voting server and send the corresponding notices to port `5004`.

The final command, which effectively starts the server, can also be configured in an IDE to allow interactive debugging using features like breakpoints.
You can also use a tool like [entr](https://eradman.com/entrproject/) to restart it automatically when the code changes. For example:

```shell
$ ls *.py | ROLLUP_HTTP_SERVER_URL="http://127.0.0.1:5004" entr -r python3 voting.py
```

After the server successfully starts, it should print an output like the following:

```shell
INFO:__main__:HTTP rollup_server url is http://127.0.0.1:5004
INFO:__main__:Sending finishsystem
```

After that, you can interact with the application normally [as explained above](#interacting-with-the-application).

## Available API

### Deposit to the dapp

Deposit to the dapp to get the right to vote in this system (Only users who deposited to the system can vote)

```shell
yarn start erc20 deposit --amount 100
```

### All the above requests is pass into following command:

```shell
yarn start send --input <action_in_string>
```

Example

```shell
yarn start send --input '{"action":"LIST_ALL"}'
```

#### List all candidate

View all the candidate of the campaign.<br/>
Return: List candidates.

```shell
{
    "action": "LIST_ALL",
    "campaign_id": 1
}
```

#### Voted candidate:

View the candidate you voted for in the campaign.<br/>
Return: Voted candidate or error if you haven't voted yet.

```shell
{
    "action": "VOTED_CANDIDATE",
    "campaign_id": 1
}
```

#### List top candidates:

Get top ranking candidates of the campaign.<br/>
Return: List highest ranking candidates.

```shell
{
    "action": "TOP_CANDIDATES",
    "quantity": 10 // Default 10,
    "campaign_id": 1
}
```

#### Vote:

Vote for a candidate.<br/>
Return: Message success or fail.

```shell
{
    "action": "VOTE",
    "candidate_id": 1,
    "campaign_id": 1
}
```

#### Create campaign:

Create your own campaign.<br/>
Return: Campaign detail or error message

```shell
{
    "action": "CREATE_CAMPAIGN",
    "name": "C1",
    "description": "Create a new conference campaign",
    "start_time": "2022-07-08 12:11:00",
    "end_time": "2023-07-08 12:11:00",
    "candidates": [
        {
            "name": "C1",
            "avatar": "avatar.png",
            "brief_introduction": "Welcome to the C1 campaign"
        },
        {
            "name": "C2",
            "avatar": "avatar.png",
            "brief_introduction": "Welcome to the C1 campaign"
        }
    ]
}
```

#### List all campaigns

View all the campaigns that exists in the system.<br/>
Return: List of campaign.

```shell
{
    "action": "LIST_CAMPAIGN"
}
```

#### Change start time and end time of campaign

Change the start time and end time of a campaign. <br/>
Return: Success or error message

```shell
{
    "action": "CHANGE_TIME_CAMPAIGN",
    "campaign_id": 1,
    "start_time": "2022-01-08 20:20:20",
    "end_time": "2022-10-09 09:09:09"
}
```

#### Add candidates into existing campaign

You can add more candidate to a specified campaign (if you are the owner of that campaign). <br/>
Return: Success or error message

```shell
{
    "action": "ADD_CANDIDATES",
    "campaign_id": 1,
    "candidates": [
        {
            "name": "C1",
            "avatar": "avatar.png",
            "brief_introduction": "Welcome to the C1 campaign"
        },
        {
            "name": "C2",
            "avatar": "avatar.png",
            "brief_introduction": "Welcome to the C1 campaign"
        }
    ]
}
```

#### Delete candidate

You can remove a candidate from the campaign (If you are the owner of that campaign).<br/>
Return: Success or fail message.

```shell
{
    "action": "DELETE_CANDIDATE",
    "campaign_id": 1,
    "candidate_id": 1
}
```

#### Voted campaign

View the campaign you have voted. <br/>
Return: List of campaign.

```shell
{
    "action": "VOTED_CAMPAIGN"
}
```
